---
layout: page
title: Experimental Design
img: assets/img/failed_sample.jpg
tags: Experiments, Design
description:
categories:
giscus_comments: false
related_posts: false
related_publications:
---

The goal of this cource was to design and run novel and substative experiments 
based on the cumulative learning of our undergraduate degrees. The difficulty 
in designing experiments was increased by limiting our experiments to not use 
exisiting equipment and machinery. So using the tensile tester, wind tunnel, or 
other standard lab equipment would result in missed marks. Therefore, it was our
goal to not only design the experiments in such a way that we would get results, 
but also consider the creation of new equipment or processes for testing.

# Experiment 1

In the first, one-variable experiment, my team designed an experiemnt for 
equaluating the amount of chalk needed to maximize grip on rocks. To do this, we
applied increasing horrizontal forces between a weighted rock and a skin 
simulant. What was deterimened, was that any amount of chalk actually acts a 
lubricant between the skin and the rock, reducing grip strength linearly. Our
hypothesis as to why this was the result was that the skin simulant failed to 
account for the moisture produced while climbing, and that the real use for 
rock climbing chalk is it's ability to reduce moisture between the hands and the
rock. [Experiment 1]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/pdf/MEEN_404_Lab_1_Report.pdf).

# Experiment 2

In the second, two-variable experiment, my group designed an experiement to 
evaluate the efficacy of using a torque-predictor model meant for forged metal 
springs for plastic 3d printed springs of varying thicknesses and plastic types.
It was determined that the plastic torsional springs did follow a linear 
relationsip of torque vs displacement, but were off from the predicted values by
a factor of 8.7. This is likely due to additional processes from 3D printing, 
and the interactions between layers. [Experiment 2]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/pdf/MEEN_404_Lab_2_Report.pdf).

# Experiment 3

For our third experiment, my group designed an experiement to determined the 
least expensive combination of concrete, aggregate, and sand for the creation of
concrete that could meet minimum sidewalk standards. Our experiment used a full-
factorial design of experiment (DOE) and were the first in the school to utilize
the compression testing capabilities of one of the new Ingstrom machines. While 
the recipes that were sucessful were are very close, the team was able to make a 
final determination. [Experiment 3]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/pdf/MEEN_404_Lab_3_Report.pdf).
